README.rst, before:

================
Wagtail Modeltranslation
================

This app is built using core features of django-modeltranslation: https://github.com/deschler/django-modeltranslation

It's an alternative approach for i18n support on Wagtail CMS websites.

The wagtail-modeltranslation application is used to translate dynamic content of
existing Wagtail models to an arbitrary number of languages, without having to
change the original model classes. It uses a registration approach (comparable
to Django's admin app) to add translations to existing or new projects and is
fully integrated into the Wagtail admin UI.

The advantage of a registration approach is the ability to add translations to
models on a per-app basis. You can use the same app in different projects,
whether or not they use translations, and without touching the original
model class.


.. image:: https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation/blob/master/screenshot.png?raw=true
    :target: https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation/blob/master/screenshot.png?raw=true


Features
========

- Add translations without changing existing models or views
- Translation fields are stored in the same table (no expensive joins)
- Supports inherited models (abstract and multi-table inheritance)
- Handle more than just text fields
- Wagtail admin integration
- Flexible fallbacks, auto-population and more!
- Default Page model fields has translatable fields by default
- StreamFields are now supported!


Quick start
===========

1. Install :code:`wagtail-modeltranslation`::

    pip install wagtail-modeltranslation

2. Add "wagtail_modeltranslation" to your INSTALLED_APPS setting like this (before all apps that you want to translate)::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'wagtail_modeltranslation',
    )

3. Add "django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware" to MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES on your settings.py::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        ...
        'django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware',
    )

4. Enable i18n on settings.py::

    USE_I18N = True

5. Define available languages on settings.py::

    LANGUAGES = (
        ('pt', u'Português'),
        ('es', u'Espanhol'),
        ('fr', u'Francês'),
    )

6. Create translation.py inside the root folder of the app where the model you want to translate exists::

    from .models import Foo
    from wagtail_modeltranslation.translator import WagtailTranslationOptions
    from modeltranslation.decorators import register


    @register(Foo)
    class FooTR(WagtailTranslationOptions):
        fields = (
            'body',
        )

7. Run :code:`python manage.py makemigrations` followed by :code:`python manage.py migrate`


Upgrade considerations (v0.6)
======================

This version has some important changes as there was a refactoring to include django-modeltranslation as a dependency instead of
duplicating their code in our version. This allow us to focus on Wagtail admin integration features as django-modeltranslation is
very well mantained and is very quickly to fix problems with the latest Django versions. This way we also keep all the django-modeltranslation
features (if you want you can also customize django-admin, for example). We also provide a new class to create the translation options classes: **WagtailTranslationOptions**
Most of the changes are related to imports as they change from wagtail-modeltranslation to modeltranslation.

To upgrade to this version you need to:

- Replace the ``TranslationOption`` with ``WagtailTranslationOptions`` in all translation.py files
- The import of the register decorator is now ``from modeltranslation.decorators import register``
- The import of translator is now ``from modeltranslation.translator import translator``


Project Home
------------
https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation

Documentation
-------------
http://wagtail-modeltranslation.readthedocs.io/

Commit message:

Remove WagtailTranslationOptions and update docs

README.rst, after:

================
Wagtail Modeltranslation
================

This app is built using core features of django-modeltranslation: https://github.com/deschler/django-modeltranslation

It's an alternative approach for i18n support on Wagtail CMS websites.

The wagtail-modeltranslation application is used to translate dynamic content of
existing Wagtail models to an arbitrary number of languages, without having to
change the original model classes. It uses a registration approach (comparable
to Django's admin app) to add translations to existing or new projects and is
fully integrated into the Wagtail admin UI.

The advantage of a registration approach is the ability to add translations to
models on a per-app basis. You can use the same app in different projects,
whether or not they use translations, and without touching the original
model class.


.. image:: https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation/blob/master/screenshot.png?raw=true
    :target: https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation/blob/master/screenshot.png?raw=true


Features
========

- Add translations without changing existing models or views
- Translation fields are stored in the same table (no expensive joins)
- Supports inherited models (abstract and multi-table inheritance)
- Handle more than just text fields
- Wagtail admin integration
- Flexible fallbacks, auto-population and more!
- Default Page model fields has translatable fields by default
- StreamFields are now supported!


Quick start
===========

1. Install :code:`wagtail-modeltranslation`::

    pip install wagtail-modeltranslation

2. Add "wagtail_modeltranslation" to your INSTALLED_APPS setting like this (before all apps that you want to translate)::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'wagtail_modeltranslation',
        'wagtail_modeltranslation.makemigrations',
    )

3. Add "django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware" to MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES on your settings.py::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
        ...
        'django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware',
    )

4. Enable i18n on settings.py::

    USE_I18N = True

5. Define available languages on settings.py::

    LANGUAGES = (
        ('pt', u'Português'),
        ('es', u'Espanhol'),
        ('fr', u'Francês'),
    )

6. Create translation.py inside the root folder of the app where the model you want to translate exists::

    from .models import Foo
    from modeltranslation.translator import TranslationOptions
    from modeltranslation.decorators import register


    @register(Foo)
    class FooTR(TranslationOptions):
        fields = (
            'body',
        )

7. Run :code:`python manage.py makemigrations` followed by :code:`python manage.py migrate` (repeat every time you add a new language)

8. Run :code:`python manage.py sync_page_translation_fields` (repeat every time you add a new language)

9. If you're adding :code:`wagtail-modeltranslation`:: to an existing site run :code:`python manage.py update_translation_fields`


Upgrade considerations (v0.8)
======================

This version includes breaking changes as some key parts of the app have been re-written. The most important change is that
``Page`` is now patched with translation fields.

To upgrade to this version you need to:

- Replace the ``WagtailTranslationOptions`` with ``TranslationOption`` in all translation.py files
- While optional it's recommended to add ``'wagtail_modeltranslation.makemigrations'`` to your INSTALLED_APPS

Upgrade considerations (v0.6)
======================

This version has some important changes as there was a refactoring to include django-modeltranslation as a dependency instead of
duplicating their code in our version. This allow us to focus on Wagtail admin integration features as django-modeltranslation is
very well mantained and is very quickly to fix problems with the latest Django versions. This way we also keep all the django-modeltranslation
features (if you want you can also customize django-admin, for example). We also provide a new class to create the translation options classes: **WagtailTranslationOptions**
Most of the changes are related to imports as they change from wagtail-modeltranslation to modeltranslation.

To upgrade to this version you need to:

- Replace the ``TranslationOption`` with ``WagtailTranslationOptions`` in all translation.py files
- The import of the register decorator is now ``from modeltranslation.decorators import register``
- The import of translator is now ``from modeltranslation.translator import translator``


Project Home
------------
https://github.com/infoportugal/wagtail-modeltranslation

Documentation
-------------
http://wagtail-modeltranslation.readthedocs.io/
