=========================
wagtail-modeltranslation 0.6 rc2 release notes
=========================

Changelist:
 - django-modeltranslation is now a dependency.
 - added compatibility with Python 3 (3.3, 3.4, 3.5).
 - dropped support for wagtail versions prior to 1.4.

Bug fixes:
 - sometimes the required fields weren't marked as so, raising an Exception not caught on the form.
 - patch of panels when a custom edit_handler is defined.
 - set_url_method which caused to child of a page not being updated when the parent path changed.
 - validation of duplicated slugs.

 Upgrade considerations
======================

This version has some important changes as there was a refactoring to include django-modeltranslation as a dependency instead of
duplicating their code in our version. This allow us to focus on Wagtail admin integration features as django-modeltranslation is
very well mantained and is very quickly to fix problems with the latest Django versions. This way we also keep all the django-modeltranslation
features (if you want you can also customize django-admin, for example). We also provide a new class to create the translation options classes: **WagtailTranslationOptions**
Most of the changes are related to imports as they change from wagtail-modeltranslation to modeltranslation.

To upgrade to this version you need to:

- Replace the ``TranslationOption`` with ``WagtailTranslationOptions`` in all translation.py files
- The import of the register decorator is now ``from modeltranslation.decorators import register``
- The import of translator is now ``from modeltranslation.translator import translator``
